- [Instructor] As we get ready to dig into Spring framework
in depth it is important to level set
on what exactly Spring is and why it is become
one of the most popular frameworks for the JDK.
So what is Spring beyond just the basics
of the framework?
Spring is indeed a framework that provides
the plumbing for an application so you can focus
on the business processes or user needs
that you are responsible for.
But Spring is also an open source project
backed by Pivotal, now owned once again by VMware.
The power of Spring really starts with this community.
The core committers are all fantastic developers
and the community only makes them better.
They're all very active in answering questions,
responding to bugs, and sharing their opinions
on how to use Spring in the most effective manner.
Spring was and still is to a large part
still focused on enterprise abstractions.
It is really the bread-and-butter of its operational usage.
However, Spring is fully capable of supporting
internet focused applications.
In the advent of micro services architectures
where Java is the language of choice,
Spring really shines with Spring Boot
and embedded application servers.
Spring is really lightweight.
I know many users of other frameworks
will laugh at that comment.
But if you look at the feature sets Spring provides
and the way the projects are broken apart
to optimize workflows, it really is a lightweight framework.
Consider especially traditional Jakarta EE implementations,
formally known as Java enterprise edition,
the Spring packaging and abstractions are much smaller.
Spring is also very unobtrusive.
If you build your applications using best practices
and current recommended strategies,
you can dramatically reduce the dependency
on imports from the Spring catalog.
Through the use of abstractions and facades
you can actually keep your business logic
completely intact while not requiring
any Spring imports in those class files.
So let's spend a moment and talk about
the most popular use case for Spring
and that is the enterprise itself.
With Spring, especially Spring Boot,
there is no need for heavy application servers.
Even if you don't use Spring Boot,
Tomcat is sufficient to run your packaged WAR file.
However, most users today are building
executable Jar files with the app server embedded in it.
Spring achieves much of this abstraction
from the heavy enterprise system APIs
that come with Jakarta EE.
That doesn't mean that you don't still have
access to technologies like JMS.
You just abstract them away from the application server.
By leveraging this in your ecosystem your code is simpler
but so is your operational burden.
By leveraging dedicated systems instead of large
do everything application server implementations
you make your code easier to distribute and scale as well.
Now I've mentioned business logic a lot already.
But it's a key win for Spring.
Think of how complex and repetitive it is
to set up a JDBC connection, build a query,
execute it, and then read the results into an object
all while shutting down the result set in connection.
Now repeat that for every database query
in your application.
Then expand that to every other common system that you use.
This litters your code with copy and paste
that is error-prone at best.
With Spring this just goes away.
The framework handles it for you.
So your code is just business logic
and ultimately that is what you really care about.
Another big benefit of Spring
is the dependency injection aspect of the framework.
Spring manages all of your runtime dependencies
by allowing the framework to maintain those objects
so you don't have to deal with the creation and maintenance
of those objects themselves.
This greatly decreases the complexity of your code
which of course improves your maintainability.
It also helps you avoid some of the most common issues
around memory management that can creep into Java
even though it has automatic garbage collection.
With Spring you create those objects once.
This is done either through configuration
of the application context or through formal
object creation and configuration in Java config.
At the point your object is configured
it is maintained by the application context however
until the application closes.
This is a technique that does take some getting used to
as with any dependency injection based framework.
But we are going to spend some time talking about that
in much more detail later.